README.adoc, before:


= ExaWorks: Software Development Kit

An Exascale Computing Project team.

== Overview

The goal of this repo is to develop a Software Development Kit (SDK) for workflows at exascale.  This will integrate the Parsl, Flux, RADICAL-Pilot,  and Swift/T workflow systems, plus other tools, into a consistent set of "ExaWorks SDK Component Packages".  Applications teams will be able to easily draw from these packages as needed, and develop and share workflows built on the various systems.

== The SDK Workflow Systems in Brief

=== https://parsl-project.org[Parsl]

Pure Python library for describing and managing parallel computation on one to many nodes.  It contains abstractions to support various parallel and distributed workloads: from bag-of-tasks to dataflow, short to long duration tasks, single core through to multi-node.

=== http://flux-framework.org[Flux]

Flux is a workload management system (à la Slurm, PBS, LSF), with
single-user and multi-user (a.k.a. system instance) modes.

=== https://radical-cybertools.github.io[RADICAL-Pilot]

RADICAL-Pilot is an abstractions-based suite of middleware building blocks that are architected for scalable, interoperable and sustainable approaches to support science on a range of high-performance and distributed computing systems.

=== http://swift-lang.org/Swift-T[Swift/T]

Swift/T is an MPI-based workflow language and runtime system.  It runs in a one big job model, with internal automatic task parallelization and data movement, enhanced by workflow-level compiler optimizations.

== Objectives

The objectives of this SDK are to:

* Make it easy to install any or all of the workflow systems on the same underlying system.
* Develop various levels of interoperabilty among the workflow systems.
* Support Enterprise and HPC systems.

== SDK Features

=== Dockerfiles

Each workflow system has a Dockerfile in this repo to allow it to be easily deployed.

=== Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)

The SDK maintains a CI/CD system for its supported component packages.  The CI/CD tools will be portable to a variety of CI/CD services.  For now, we use GitHub Actions CI workflows.

=== Packaging for HPC

The SDK will support HPC-compatible distributions of its component packages via Spack.

== Implementation

=== Dockerfiles

==== Usage of Base

Each Dockerfile image relies on several packages from the ExaWorks SDK Base (CentOS 7), particularly the C tools and OpenMPI.  Other Base images will be supported, including those based on CentOS 8.

==== Dependencies

Most workflow system dependencies are in the Base Dockerfile, but some customizations may be made by the individual systems.

==== Build

Each workflow system can be built with a simple `docker build` command.

==== Tests

Each workflow system provides a small number of tests to verify that the build was successful.

== Further Information

Other ExaWorks resources including our public Slack channels are available through the https://exaworks.org[ExaWorks Home Page].

== Support

You are welcome to provide feedback via the  https://github.com/ExaWorks/SDK/discussions[ExaWorks SDK GitHub Discussion].

Please report technical issues to the https://github.com/ExaWorks/SDK/issues[ExaWorks SDK GitHub Issue Tracker].

Commit message:

Update README to specify build context

README.adoc, after:


= ExaWorks: Software Development Kit

An Exascale Computing Project team.

== Overview

The goal of this repo is to develop a Software Development Kit (SDK) for workflows at exascale.  This will integrate the Parsl, Flux, RADICAL-Pilot,  and Swift/T workflow systems, plus other tools, into a consistent set of "ExaWorks SDK Component Packages".  Applications teams will be able to easily draw from these packages as needed, and develop and share workflows built on the various systems.

== The SDK Workflow Systems in Brief

=== https://parsl-project.org[Parsl]

Pure Python library for describing and managing parallel computation on one to many nodes.  It contains abstractions to support various parallel and distributed workloads: from bag-of-tasks to dataflow, short to long duration tasks, single core through to multi-node.

=== http://flux-framework.org[Flux]

Flux is a workload management system (à la Slurm, PBS, LSF), with
single-user and multi-user (a.k.a. system instance) modes.

=== https://radical-cybertools.github.io[RADICAL-Pilot]

RADICAL-Pilot is an abstractions-based suite of middleware building blocks that are architected for scalable, interoperable and sustainable approaches to support science on a range of high-performance and distributed computing systems.

=== http://swift-lang.org/Swift-T[Swift/T]

Swift/T is an MPI-based workflow language and runtime system.  It runs in a one big job model, with internal automatic task parallelization and data movement, enhanced by workflow-level compiler optimizations.

== Objectives

The objectives of this SDK are to:

* Make it easy to install any or all of the workflow systems on the same underlying system.
* Develop various levels of interoperabilty among the workflow systems.
* Support Enterprise and HPC systems.

== SDK Features

=== Dockerfiles

Each workflow system has a Dockerfile in this repo to allow it to be easily deployed.

=== Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)

The SDK maintains a CI/CD system for its supported component packages.  The CI/CD tools will be portable to a variety of CI/CD services.  For now, we use GitHub Actions CI workflows.

=== Packaging for HPC

The SDK will support HPC-compatible distributions of its component packages via Spack.

== Implementation

=== Dockerfiles

==== Usage of Base

Each Dockerfile image relies on several packages from the ExaWorks SDK Base (CentOS 7), particularly the C tools and OpenMPI.  Other Base images will be supported, including those based on CentOS 8.

==== Dependencies

Most workflow system dependencies are in the Base Dockerfile, but some customizations may be made by the individual systems.

==== Build

Each workflow system can be built with a simple `docker build` command, using the directory `base/` as the build context.

First, build the base image (centos7|centos8) with:

----
$ cd docker/base/
$ docker build --tag <TAG> --file centos7/Dockerfile .
----

Then, build the desired workflow system FROM that TAG.

==== Tests

Each workflow system provides a small number of tests to verify that the build was successful.

== Further Information

Other ExaWorks resources including our public Slack channels are available through the https://exaworks.org[ExaWorks Home Page].

== Support

You are welcome to provide feedback via the  https://github.com/ExaWorks/SDK/discussions[ExaWorks SDK GitHub Discussion].

Please report technical issues to the https://github.com/ExaWorks/SDK/issues[ExaWorks SDK GitHub Issue Tracker].
